.Dd April 02, 2026
.Dt ROCK-BIN 1
.Os "rock 0.1.6"
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm rock-bin
.Nd Lua environment and package manager
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm rock-bin
.Op Ar command
.Op Ar arguments
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm rock-bin
is a command-line interface tool for managing Lua environments and packages.
It allows users to manage Lua versions, project dependencies, and execute project-defined scripts.
.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm about
Show details about current stack (Lua, LuaRocks, Rock).
.It Cm update
Sync versions from lua.org and LuaRocks GitHub.
.It Cm upgrade-rocks
Upgrade internal LuaRocks to the latest version.
.It Cm implode
Uninstall Rock and remove all managed files.
.El
.
.Sh VERSION MANAGEMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm install Ar v
Download and compile a specific Lua version.
.Pp
.Dl $ rock install 5.4.7
.It Cm use Ar v
Switch Lua version (Rock or System).
.Pp
.Dl $ rock use 5.4.7
.It Cm list
List installed and available Lua versions.
.El
.
.Sh PROJECT MANAGEMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm init
Create a new rock.toml project file.
.It Cm save Ar p Op Ar @ver
Install and record a dependency (supports @^1.2).
.Pp
.Dl $ rock save my-package@1.0
.It Cm save-dev Ar p Op Ar @ver
Install and record a dev-dependency.
.Pp
.Dl $ rock save-dev my-dev-package@latest
.It Cm remove Ar p
Uninstall a package and remove from rock.toml.
.Pp
.Dl $ rock remove my-package
.It Cm restore
Install all dependencies from rock.lock/toml.
.It Cm run Ar s
Run a script defined in rock.toml.
.Pp
.Dl $ rock init && rock run start
.It Cm path
Show environment exports for the local project.
.El
.
.Sh GLOBAL OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Show this informative screen.
.It Fl -version , Fl v
Show current rock CLI version.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl $ rock update && rock upgrade-rocks
.Dl $ rock install 5.4.7
.Dl $ rock use 5.4.7
.Dl $ rock init && rock run start
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr luarocks 1 ,
.Xr lua 1